[Term Entry] Minimax algorithm in AI (#4229)
Codecademy/docs: content/ai/concepts/minimax-algorithm/ai-minimax.md

---

> Title: 'Minimax algorithm in AI'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Title: 'Minimax algorithm'
```

Description: 'Minimax algortihm is a recursive algorithm used in decision making and game theory.'
Subjects:
  - 'AI'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'AI'
  - 'Algorithms'
  - 'Graphs'
  - 'Graph Search'
CatalogContent:
  - 'paths/data-science'
---

> The **minimax algorithm** is a fundamental concept in artificial intelligence used for decision making in games and other scenarios.
> It is widely used in two player games where players alternate turns, such as tic-tac-toe, chess, backgammon, etc. 
> In these games, each player wants to make the best or most optimal move to maximize their chances of winning, while also trying to minimize their opponent's chances. Therefore, the name of the algorithm is a combination of two words: minimize and maximize.
> The minimax algorithm helps the computer or AI decide its next move by considering all possible moves it can make and all possible responses from the opponent. It does this by simulating the game's future moves and outcomes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **minimax algorithm** is a fundamental concept in artificial intelligence used for decision making in games and other scenarios.
It is widely used in two-player games where players alternate turns, such as tic-tac-toe, chess, backgammon, etc. 
 In these games, each player wants to make the best or most optimal move to maximize their chances of winning, while also trying to minimize their opponent's chances. Therefore, the algorithm's name is a combination of two words: minimize and maximize. The minimax algorithm helps the computer or AI decide its next move by considering all possible moves it can make and all possible responses from the opponent. It does this by simulating the game's future moves and outcomes.
```

## Implementation 

> The minimax algorithm utilizes a depth-first search approach to thoroughly explore the entire game tree. The minimax algorithm proceeds all the way down to the terminal node of the tree, then backtrack the tree as the recursion. [`Depth-First Search`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/ai/search-algorithms/depth-first-search)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The minimax algorithm utilizes a depth-first search approach to thoroughly explore the entire game tree. The minimax algorithm proceeds down to the terminal node of the tree and then backtracks the tree as the [recursion](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/python/recursion). [`Depth-First Search`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/ai/search-algorithms/depth-first-search)
```

![Depth-First Search example](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Codecademy/docs/main/media/Depth-First-Search-Example.png)

> In the minimax algorithm, we have two players: the one who wants to score as high as possible the maximizer and the one who wants to score as low as possible the minimizer. Both players try to outsmart each other, with the minimizer aiming to make the maximizer's score as low as they can while trying to improve their own score. It's like a game of strategy where one player tries to win big, and the other tries to keep the losses small.

Reviewer: Avoid using first- and second-person pronouns (e.g. "I", "we", "you") if possible.

2. The AI then evaluates each node or move based on how favorable it is for itself. It assigns a score to each node, with higher scores indicating better moves.
3. Simultaneously, it assumes the opponent will make the best possible move to minimize the AI's chances of winning. So, for each of the AI's moves, it looks at the opponent's best responses and assigns scores accordingly.
4. The AI then selects its move based on these scores. If it's the AI's turn, it chooses the move with the highest score (maximizing its chances). If it's the opponent's turn, it selects the move with the lowest score (minimizing the AI's chances).

In summary, the minimax algorithm helps the AI make optimal decisions by considering the best and worst possible outcomes for each move, assuming both players play perfectly. Additionally, the main issue with the minimax algorithm is that it can take a long time to make decisions in complex games like chess or Go. These games have many possible moves, which creates a lot of branches in the decision tree. To address this problem, alpha-beta pruning can be used to speed up the algorithm.

> ## Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example

```
